## Rules of Haggis

[Haggis] is a two-player trick-taking game invented by Sean Ross.

[Haggis]:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Haggis_(card_game)

### Deck

The deck consists of cards numbered 2 through 10 in each of four
suits. The deck is shuffled, and each player is dealt 14 of these
cards. Additionally, each player starts with three special cards
marked J, Q, and K.

### Play

The first player starts with the lead. They initiate the trick by
playing any valid card combination. The players then take turns
playing successively higher-ranking card combinations on top of the
last played combination (ranking rules described in detail below).

A player may also pass instead of playing. In that case, the other
player wins the trick and gains the lead for the next trick. Note that
if a player cannot make a valid play, they must pass (but they are
also allowed to pass even if a valid play is available).

The game ends when one player runs out of cards. (They are also
considered to have won that trick.)

There are two types of valid card combinations: sequences and
bombs. The rules for forming these combinations are described below.

#### Sequences

A sequence consists of consecutive blocks of numbers. The
*multiplicity* is the size of each block, and the *length* is the
number of blocks. The *rank* of a sequence is the highest card that
appears in it.

For example, 223344 is a sequence with multiplicity 2, length 3, and
rank 4. Any multiplicity and length is allowed except multiplicity 1
and length 2. **The number of suits that appear in a sequence must be
equal to its multiplicity.**

J, Q, and K have values 11, 12, and 13 for purposes of sequences. For
example, 10JQ is a valid sequence of rank 12. J can also be played as
a single with rank 11. Finally, J, Q, and K can also be played as wild
cards, taking any desired suit and any desired value that is 10 or
smaller.

A sequence may only be led or played on top of another sequence with
the exact same multiplicity and length. Furthermore, the previous
sequence must be of a lower rank.

#### Bombs

Certain combinations of cards are considered "bombs". There are six
types of bombs, listed in ascending order of ranking:

- 3579 (all different suits)
- JQ
- JK
- QK
- JQK
- 3579 (all the same suit)

A bomb may be led or played on top of any sequence or on top of another bomb
of lower ranking.

### Scoring

Odd-numbered cards are worth 1 point each, while J, Q, and K are worth
2, 3, and 5 points, respectively. Even-numbered cards are not worth
any points.

Ordinarily, the winner of a trick takes all of the points in that
trick. However, if the trick was won with a bomb, then instead the
*opponent* takes the points.

Finally, the player who finishes playing all of his/her cards first
gains 5 points for each card remaining in their opponent's hand.

Scores are accumulated over multiple rounds. The first player to reach
350 points wins.
